Some information about how to debug/build this lexer/parser
===========================================================
I wrote this file to remember how I am doing to debug the parser: how to build
it "by hand" using ocamlbuild, how understand the automaton behaviour... I hope
it will help!

## Build and install ##
There are two ways of building: with with pre-generated setup.ml (and
./configure and Makefile) or directly with the more "low-level" ocamlbuild.

1. Using setup.ml. You basically have to make and make install. The
`make install` step is not mandatory as it will only move the compiled touist
to the place you indicated in --bindir.

        ./configure --enable-debug --bindir . --override is_native false
        make
        make install

2. Using ocamlbuild (which is used by the 1). See section [Run the debugger](#run-the-debugger).


## Running touist ##
After having make & make install using `./configure --bindir .`, you should be
able to run `./touist`:

    echo '$a' | ./touist - --sat


## Edit how the build is made ##
If you want to modify how the build is made, you must know that the files
`Makefile` and `setup.ml` are generated by `oasis setup`. Oasis reads the
file `_oasis`. Using oasis should only happen when `_oasis` is modified.
Whenever you want to regenerate the build scripts:

    oasis setup


## Run the debugger ##

If you want to run ocamldebug, you must build touist as a .byte instead of
.native. So I propose to use directly ocamlbuild instead of what oasis
has generated (`make`). You also need to add to the ocamlbuild command:
- the option `-tag debug` -> will generate the debug symbols for ocamldebug
- the option `-menhir "--trace"` -> will show what the automaton does.

Here is the full command (you must be in `src/`):

    ocamlbuild -use-ocamlfind -use-menhir -menhir "menhir --trace --table --inspection \
    -v -la 2" -package str,menhirLib touist.byte -tag debug

Now with the debugger. Note that I installed `rlwrap` to be able to use the
arrows to go through the command history.

    rlwrap ocamldebug touist.byte --sat test/atleast.touistl

The commands I used:
- `r` to run, `f` to finish and be able to re-run
- `break @eval 366` to set a breakpoint on src/eval.ml at line 366
- `s` to step forward when you reached a breakpoint
- `b` or `backstep` to do a backward step when you what to understand what
  happened just before the crash/exception



The syntax errors in parser.messages
====================================
One of the new features of the touist compiler is to be able to give real
and understandable syntax errors (when you forget to close a parenthesis...).
To do so, we use a feature of menhir that allows to pick a message among a
list of hand-written error messages. The thing is that there are more than
180 of these messages...

So developers can improve the error syntax messages by editing
`parser.messages` and then re-generating `touistParserMsgs.ml`.


## Re-building `touistParserMsgs.ml` using `parser.messages` ##

It is actually handled by rules at the end of the Makefile. The only
rule that is not called during `make` is

    make missing

which checks if no error messages are missing in parser.messages
(see section below 'Missing error cases')

Most of the time, the only command you want to use is the 3.

1. To generate the `parser.messages` for the first time, use:

        menhir touistParser.mly --list-errors > parser.messages

2. To update the existing `parser.messages` whenever you modify the `touistParser.mly`:

        menhir touistParser.mly --update-errors parser.messages > tmp && mv tmp parser.messages

3. To regenerate the final file `touistParserMsgs.ml` whenever you edit the error
messages in `parser.messages`:

        menhir --compile-errors parser.messages touistParser.mly > touistParserMsgs.ml

4. And to recompile touistParserMsgs.ml and then touist:

        menhir --compile-errors parser.messages touistParser.mly > touistParserMsgs.ml && ocamlbuild -use-ocamlfind -use-menhir -menhir "menhir --trace --table --inspection -v -la 2" -package menhirLib -package str touist.byte -tag debug -r

## Missing error cases in parser.messages
When updating touistParser.mly, you might sometimes create new error states
that do not appear in your already-written parser.messages.
This often leads to the error message:
```
1:14: syntax error after ',' and before 'a'.
This is an unknown syntax error (92).
Please report this problem to the compiler vendor.
```
meaning that the state 92 isn't in touistParserMsgs.ml, and thus not in
parser.messages. To fix that, anytime you modify touistParser.mly, check that
no new errors have been intruduced:

```
menhir --list-errors src/touistParser.mly > parser.messages_updated
menhir --compare-errors parser.messages_updated --compare-errors src/parser.messages --list-errors src/touistParser.mly
```

## Testing your hand-written messages ##
There are two ways to test if the messages actually work. The first one
is simply to launch `./touist` with a wrong syntax touistl file. If you built
using ocamlbuild and the option --trace in -menhir "" block, it will show you
the steps of the automaton. It is REALLY helpful to understand why an expression
is not parsed as expected. For example (WARNING: this is the old syntax with
begin formula end formula):

```
./touist.byte --sat /dev/stdin -o /dev/stdout --table /dev/stdout << eof
begin
eof

State 0:
Lookahead token is now BEGIN (0-5)
Shifting (BEGIN) to state 1
State 1:
Lookahead token is now EOF (7-7)
Initiating error handling
/dev/stdin:2:1: syntax error after 'begin' and before ''.
You must specify (at least) a "formula" bloc,
or a "sets" bloc followed by a "formula" bloc.
Example:
    begin sets    ... end sets
    begin formula ... end formula
Debug: Automaton state: 1 (see src/parser.messages)
```

The second way is to focus on tokens (the capital letters words like BEGIN)
and to ask menhir to see if this sequence of tokens triggers an error:

```
menhir --interpret-error touistParser.mly << eof
BEGIN FORMULA ATLEAST LPAREN VAR COMMA RPAREN
eof
```


Prototyping ocaml functions using toplevel
==========================================
*toplevel* = the interpreter that prompts when you launch `ocaml` with no file.

Just launch utop. I wrote a .ocamlinit that should load everything fine.
Just make sure that everything is compiled (with make build) and that
you are compiling in bytecode; to enable that:

    ./configure --override is_native false

Unexpected exception: where does it come from?
=============================================
Backtrace for exceptions is disabled by default as it needs more computation.
To enable backtracing on exception, you just have to set to 'b' the
OCAMLRUNPARAM env variable:

    OCAMLRUNPARAM=b ./touist.native
